omega compilation notes.

PRERELEASE VERSION 0.7x:

First I should note that omega is copyrighted; you are using this
program under the terms of the license, hopefully included in the file
omega.license.

omega is set up for compilation under Sun's unix; some changes may be
necessary for correct functioning under other unixes. I have included
some ifdef lines in odefs.h that ought to have some positive influence.
However, not having anything besides a sun to test omega on, I will
have to rely on your feedback as to the effect.

To implement omega on your system:

-1) Make sure you have the files listed in the file called MANIFEST.
If you don't have these files, you lose! Get them from somewhere. In
particular, it is a violation of the license not to have a copy of
olicense.txt.

0) Feel free to change omotd.txt to say whatever you like, keeping
in mind the constraints of the Sedition Act.

1) Set up a directory for omega's data files. Protection must allow
the general public to write to specified files. My personal prejudice
is against setuid, but use it if you like. There is
no need to have a special directory, but it is neater that way.

2) Change the first few #define's in odefs.h to conform to the 
data file directory, your user name, etc., as the comments in the file
discuss.

3) If you are compiling on a sun, just use the given Makefile. If not,
take a look at makefile.notsun for a clue what to do. Basically, you
just have to compile everything together, remembering to -lcurses and
-ltermlib (termcap on some systems) where appropriate.  With Makefile,
*.h, and *.c in one directory, make should produce an executable file
omega. If you get errors, you'll have to work them out for
yourself.... My Makefile uses -g; unless you are going to hack omega,
remove the -g. If you like your optimizer, feel free to try -O.  I
recommend using either cc and -g or gcc and -O; gcc really does seem
to optimize pretty well on omega, but at least our version causes dbx to
crash with -g....

4) All the files which are not source code should have at
the least public read access. The following files should have write
access as well:

omega.hi
omega.log

These files should be placed in the OMEGALIB directory defined in
odefs.h

5) At this point, omega should be ready to run. Some notes on maintaining
the game can be found in README4.

6) Send any questions to brothers@paul.rutgers.edu.

7) Good luck -- and let's be careful out there, shall we?
